And finally, we have red.
But we won't cover red here,
unless you have questions in terms of
can I do something with the JavaScript?
And if the answer is no, it's because
that capability is not yet there.
And it's not even yellow, so there
are still not trials or experimental APIs.
So we're looking at long term maybe,
or maybe never.
Because sometimes it's about security,
because websites, yeah, we're good people
all here in the room and you there, but we
know that there are bad actors out there.
So we don't want user to
get into a website and
get tricked or get their data stolen or
things like that.
So that's why there are some
capabilities that will probably never
be available directly for the web,
okay, for the web platform.
And what happens if you really
need that for some reason?
I mean,
your business model relies on that.
So the only option that you have is
to create a progressive web app,
a PWA, so a web app,
ship that web app to the app stores.
Or for desktop, you can embed that
web app in a native container.
So when you do that, you can connect,
you can bridge your JavaScript
with native code, okay?
But that's not gonna work
in a URL in the browser.
You will need to ship that as
a PWA built in native app, okay?
So you still have that option, okay?
So on desktop,
it can be things like Electron.
On mobile, we used to use PhoneGap,
in case you have heard about that, or
Apache Cordova.
Now, you also have Capacitor
from the Ionic team.
Different tools, different frameworks
that will let you do that.
We won't focus on that here today.
But have in mind that the only way that
you have to extend that is through
those options.
And of course, you also have
the ability to create browser blinds,
extensions for the browser, but
that's not typically targeting one app.
You could create an extension for
your own app.
But it's kind of weird,
typically the extension is
multi-origin, so multi-website.
So yeah, question.
>> I have a quick question
on judging by the maturity.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that based on making that API and
then sending it over to Google or
different browsers and having them kind
of release it in the next release.
Is that how that would work for
it to be available?
>> In case you have an idea for
an API, you say, or-
>> Yeah, or just judging the API and
just how it's available in one place and
it's not available on the next.
>> Okay, so
they have to understand how this works.
So actually, if we say we wanna
create a new API, I don't know,
to move the table,
because now the table has a way,
it has Bluetooth or wherever,
so we have a table movement.
I'm talking about physical table,
not the table HTML element.
So, well, the way that works is
typically someone creates a proposal,
today typically on GitHub, and
you start touching people from the web
standards that are looking into that.
Typically you need a browser to say,
hey, that's a good idea.
Let's see if we can implement that,
typically first as a yellow API.
And then we experiment with that a couple
of months or sometimes even years.
And after that, someone says,
okay, I think I like it, so
I will ship it in stable.
And what about the others?
I don't know, sometimes the others
will say, that's a good idea,
let's do that again, also.
And sometimes the discussion says,
no, we don't want that, because
different companies, different policies,
different ideas of what the web should be.
Sometimes you have, for example, Safari,
Apple implementing APIs
many years after Chrome.
For example,
they have just implemented web push
notifications after seven years
of not wanting to do that,
and Chrome and Firefox already had that.
And there are other APIs that we will
see later today, that Safari said,
we are not going to do that ever.
So that how the process works.
So you can create your own API if you
want, but if you don't have a browser,
doing something with it,
it will never reach a stable.
And by the way, after a while on the W3C,
that's the organization that
sets the standard for the web,
if only Chrome or Chromium
implements the API and no one else,
typically, they never get that
spec into recommendation.
And there are a lot of APIs that are not
a recommendation yet, they are draft, or
they say, you know what, no,
we are not going to recommend this.
But even Chrome is still supporting that
and Chrome says, okay, we have it anyway.
So we can say that that's
not a standard API now,
because the standard
process rejected the API.
And there are a couple that were
rejected by the standard process, but
they're still working on Chrome.
You can still use them,
but only on Chrome.
And there are others that are still
being discussed in the standard process.
So we will see in the future if they
will get into your recommendation or
reject them, make sense?
>> So with that being said,
what are some best practices for
utilizing these API effectively
in the web application and PWAs?
What are the best practices?
>> Well,
I think it depends of where
your capability stands.
If it's a green, go ahead.
If it's a light green,
you need to be sure to first check
if the API is available or not.
Later with code, we'll see how you can
check if an API is available or not.
Unfortunately, we don't have
an API to check APIs, okay?
So we don't have a way to say
navigator.supports, and I pass an API,
it give me true or false,
we don't have that.
So typically what we do in JavaScript,
because JavaScript is a dynamic language,
so there are ways to do that.
Most of these APIs are typically
injecting into the window
global context a constructor,
a function, or an event.
So the way to know if an API is available,
that we don't know if it works,
but at least if it's available,
the API, is to check if one particular
constructor is available in
the window object, or
if a property is available in one object.
For example,
let me give you a quick idea so far.
The Bluetooth API that we will cover
later, that will let you connect
to bluetooth devices,
it lives under navigator.bluetooth.
If a browser is not supporting the API,
you won't have the bluetooth
property in the navigator object.
So it's just a quick if,
check in for that property.
And that's how you know on
the fly with your real users,
real devices, if the API is there or not.